# us-human-resource-analysis
Our data set is produced by the U.S Office of Personnel Management, providing statistical information about the Federal civilian workforce. 
This particular dataset is the newest quarterly update, consisting of U.S workforce data collected in June 2021. 
The purpose of this raw data set is to increase public access to high value, machine readable datasets, and they are accessible via https://www.opm.gov/data/. 
The original dataset contains more than two million observations and about 30 variables about each employee, such as their salary, length of service under the federal government, highest education level and so on.  

Approaching this dataset, our group would like to explore what the employment landscape is like under the U.S Federal government, as well as what factors affect the salary of an average Federal civilian employee. Particularly, we want to look at this dataset from the perspective of an undergraduate student looking for stable employment within the States. Hence, we have filtered the dataset we will work with to only contain information of employees posted within U.S territory and working full-time, which narrows our dataset down to just more than 30,000 observations that will be more substantial to our questions. Our approach to our first main question about the employment landscape under the U.S. federal government involve visually mapping out certain variables and how some of them might relate to each other. This is a broad, exploratory question for which we do not have any end hypothesis to test. From here, we could select variables of interest that might be more predictive of an average employee’s salary to put them in a multiple regression, therefore answering our second question about what factors determine salary for the U.S. Federal workforce. 
